Biden made this country and these people
promises he could not keep it's Biden's
betrayal this war are not about America
this war is about our very long time
centuries long oppressor trying to
thrust us back under their control the
book is not called Justified why Russia
had to do what they had to do are you
done with Russian propaganda that's all
anyone ever says is that this is Russian
propaganda but that's just a bunch ofra
is are you getting or not oh give me a
break no one in America cares about
Russia at all Lady can you shut up for a
second Trump's main Bluff is I'll make
this war much bigger if you mess with me
what if Putin says yeah go ahead well
then we're in a lot of trouble I've
never seen you quite this angry fears
I'm angry about hearing misinformation
stop stop you owe a trillion dollars in
destruction of our
country we can stop talking about the
risk of World War III it's already begun
that was a chilling warning of two
United States National Security Experts
this week and the evidence is certainly
mounting Syria Gaza Lebanon Ukraine are
all red hot they're all regional proxy
wars with the United States at their
Apex whether most voters want it to stay
there or not aray has been focused on
Joe Biden's disastrous decision to
Pardon Hunter Biden his son and the
cover it provides to Trump's own
clemencies but Trump's war strategy will
have much bigger con consequences and
the world is awaiting his answers he
campaigned and one with a populist
anti-war message but now he's warning
that Hamas will have hell to pay if it
fails to release the hostages and he has
a cabinet with a bite to match his bark
Ukraine's president zalinski now says
that Ukraine will be prepared to seed
territory in exchange for NATO
membership and NATO apparently agrees
but it won't make any decisions until
Trump is back in the White House and
Putin may not be interested anyway many
people think that a rapid Retreat May
provoke Putin and the safest way back
from the brink we've watched from the
United States as the Biden
Administration has driven the US ever
closer to a nuclear conflict with Russia
the country that possesses the world's
largest nuclear Arsenal it has
accelerated ever since and it's reached
its appy so far in the weeks after
Trump's election he's now the
president-elect in that time just a few
weeks ago the Biden Administration
American military personnel launched
missiles into Mainland Russia and killed
at least a dozen Russian soldiers so we
are unbeknownst to most Americans in a
hot war with Russia an undeclared war a
war you did not vote for and that most
Americans don't want but it is ongoing
well joining me to debate on this is the
author of provoked how Washington
started the new cold war with Russia and
the catastrophe in Ukraine Scott haunton
uh the former Navy SEAL who killed Asama
Bin Laden Rob O'Neal the host of the
founder of The Young Turks Jen Yuga and
the Ukrainian streamer and YouTuber
Ukrainian Anna welcome to all of you
here uh let me start with you Ukrainian
Anna first time we've had you on
uncensored so welcome to you um I
watched the interview with president
zalinsky at the weekend and I I went to
ke uh four months after the War Began
and interviewed him uh and the first
lady and he he was Resolute then that
Ukraine would not seed an inch of
territory to Vladimir Putin and that was
certainly the mood of all the people and
yet here we are you know just over two
years later and there's no doubt that he
is now countenancing the idea that
Ukraine would seed the territory that's
been taken by Putin in return for
membership of NATO for the rest of
Ukraine what what did you think of that
interview that he
gave um what I think about it is there
are certain realities that we have to
contend with as people and many people
in Ukraine are of the opinion that Trump
will um when he becomes president uh
push Ukraine to basically some sort of
concession and our job is now to somehow
figure out how do we guarantee our
security in the future and how we
prevent Russia from attacking us again
which is something that most people
think uh NATO membership is because uh
Russia is not in the business of
attacking NATO countries it's in the
business of attacking Georgia malova
Ukraine countries that are outside of
NATO's protection so um yeah most people
in Ukraine obviously don't want to see
anything because we know what happens in
those occupied territories and so does
un and many other organizations that
gave uh you know their their not to the
to the acknowledgment that there is a
systematic uh um torture rape abuse
deportations of ukrainians uh
prohibition of Ukrainian language
culture and all sorts of horrible things
and of course nobody wants to abandon
our people to that sort of Fate but also
you have to uh kind of you know kind of
content with the with what our our
allies want and what is their decisions
so I believe uh in that sense that
zansky is uh doing exactly that he's you
know acknowledging the reality of
Trump's presidency and what will happen
um yeah so I think we should also um you
know wait and see what exactly Trump
will do because his plan has been
discussed but we don't know really much
details so far so yeah I wouldn't jump
uh into conclusions right now no I think
that's right I think that yeah I mean
I'll bring Scott haunton Scott Horton
here Scott the thing about Trump is he's
he is unpredictable we don't know know I
talked to him last week about this we
don't know exactly what Trump's going to
do people people keep trying to say this
is what he'll definitely do he'll give
Putin everything he wants and so on I
don't think that's going to happen um
but in terms of this deal that zalinski
seemed to be putting forward
where Putin would keep the land that
he's taken but that the rest of Ukraine
would come under the NATO umbrella do
you think that's something that Putin
would even consider as part of a peace
settlement oh I really don't know I I
certainly doubt that he's willing to
accept anything that would include even
rump you know what's left of Ukraine
joining the NATO alliance um I certainly
hope that Trump would not entertain that
um that's what this has been largely
about of course along with um the
contest over who controls what territory
inside the country um is preventing
exactly that conclusion I think it's a
real dilemma because the ukrainians um
you know it's not just that Trump has
won an election on repudiating Biden's
policy and seeking peace here it's quite
frankly that the ukrainians are just in
no position whatsoever to reverse
Russia's gains on the ground even the
Biden Administration admits that now the
post the times in the journal all Quote
military experts saying that that truly
is the case so in other words Kiev and
DC are in a position of weakness and all
Trump really has to threaten is more
weapons sales and in and increased
weapon shipments um but Biden already
tried that that didn't make the
difference and so um I think what's
what's going to happen is the Russians
are are going to keep probably all four
of those Eastern and Southern provinces
there uh you know um uh Lans dones zosia
and kerson and hopefully will not demand
harke or Odessa we can you know stop it
there and the Biden pardon me the the
Trump Administration is going to have to
get their messaging straight that this
truly is a betrayal and they admit it
but that it's Biden's betrayal Biden
made this country and these people
promises he could not possibly keep
we're going to help you force the
Russians all the way out and all of
these things and all they've done is
gotten a bunch of people killed and then
they lost anyway and it's a real tragedy
but it's not Trump's fault Trump has to
be able to have the political capital in
this country to say that look it is ugly
but you know what Pierce he actually and
I don't know how he did this he got Z
Khalil zad the card carrying
neoconservative straussian to sign a
deal with the Taliban to get up out of
there and yes Biden absolutely botched
the withdrawal I could go on for an hour
about that but Trump was willing to say
you know what we lost we're not keeping
the Taliban out and we're going to stop
trying now and Biden it was really the
best thing Biden ever did his life was
agree with that even though he botched
the process of the withdrawal and so
it's the same kind of thing here it's a
it is a real tragedy what the Biden
Administration has gotten the country of
Ukraine into here check I mean it look
every part of me is like I don't want to
give a Russian dictator who's illegally
in my view invaded a sovereign
Democratic European country that's been
independent since the mid90s I don't
want to give him an inch of that land
that he's stolen with his murderous
Rampage but there comes in war you know
I've got a lot of military in my family
there comes in war a cold hard reality
check as Anna was alluding to earlier
where we are where we are you know we
can all be idealistic about what we'd
like to happen but the reality is that
it is highly unlikely now I think that
Ukraine without a massive extra support
from the likes of America which is
simply not going to come that it is it
is a case if Putin will probably be able
to keep what he's taken is that your
assessment and is that right for the
world that we give him this big win
which is effectively how he will portray
it
yeah that is my assessment and so the
reality on the ground is that when Trump
won uh we lost about 20% of Ukraine now
uh there's a good argument to be made
that you had already lost that 20% of
Ukraine and you were never going to get
it back because of the military
realities on the ground so you know it's
this has been a very very difficult
question because uh the US did push
Russia too much we did push NATO to its
borders when we said we wouldn't I
understand all that but at the end of
the day the Russians invaded
and it's not an anti-war position to
start a war so Putin is definitely
guilty and add on top of that 12,000
civilians killed at on top of that
20,000 Ukrainian children kidnapped but
what's the answer is the answer to fight
for the next 10 years 20 years is the
answer to seed ground to Putin well
that's also super dangerous that's why
this is an unsolvable riddle because you
can get to peace now by doing what Trump
is likely going to do which is Russia
take 20% of it and uh n and it and
Ukraine will not join NATO but the next
time Russia thinks about invading a
country they're going to think well we
went into Georgia and took a chunk we
went into Crimea took it all you know
when it was part of Ukraine we went into
Ukraine again we took 20% of it it turns
out aggression is rewarded and and
Netanyahu is watching and he's going to
take a part of Gaza and China's watching
and they've got the wegers and the the
you know detention camps and the
re-education camps and the Russians have
the Ukraine children in the re-education
camps so this is really really dangerous
for the world no matter how it's
resolved yeah Rob O'Neal you've been at
the sharp end of some of the worst
conflicts Wars of the last 25 years uh
and once again thank you very much for
your extraordinary service not least in
killing Bin Laden what is your overview
of where we are here Trump coming in
obviously is going to change the dynamic
he proved in his first term he's not a
war monkey he thinks War apart from
anything else is just terrible business
that it cost a fortune the rewards are
very low um the other side of that coin
is do you let a Russian dictator run
into a European country take what he
wants and just let him have it what's
your
view well unfortunately we're in a
position where it doesn't matter why we
got here we're just here and uh Chen was
mentioning uh Georgia and Crimea and uh
invasion of Ukraine that's all weak
leadership on the United States and
unfortunately when we have a strong
United States we have a more state world
most of the time I mean we did invade
Iraq and I disagree with that even
though I went there but you're going to
have to go to a position of negotiation
I mean we we did say we weren't going to
push in NATO further east and we did
lfia Lithuania Estonia we were moving
there and now uh Ukraine wants to be a
part of NATO and and um you know it's un
Russia doesn't want that and you're
dealing you're dealing with big
countries but you're also dealing with
big Egos and Vladimir Putin Putin grew
up in a part of Russia where part of the
fund was chasing rats with sticks and he
found what it was like to corner a rat
and that's kind of where he is right now
he's trying he's been he's been in
charge of Russia since the early 90s
let's be honest and he wants to save
face with his people he's lowering the
conscription a to get people in there to
fight he's not it's like he's not going
to back out but you can't let him take
more and I'm by no means um defending
him but I also think that vomir zalinski
is a puppet and and a he's you know he's
laundering money just like most the
people in Washington Ukraine that's why
the the whole argument Ukraine is how
much money people can personally make in
Ukraine um and I you know I I hopefully
think that Donald Trump brings a big
stick also he he doesn't care about
embezzling money like the United States
is now and whatever they're doing but uh
it's it's not a it's not a good
situation but we definitely need deter
we need Alliance solidarity which we
lost uh by leaving uh Afghanistan the
way we did and a forward defense right
now our Navy which is the the the
epitomy of our forward defenses under
the Biden Administration is worrying
about uh getting more transgender
bathrooms and getting green uh ships
even though they're all nuclear which is
green um it just there needs to be some
adults in the room and talk reality
because here's where we are and someone
needs to come the table and talk to
someone else not worried about how much
jewelry Mrs zinsky could buy in New York
on the taxpayers dime right andna how
popular is Vladimir zalinski now with
Ukrainian people do you
think um I'd say pretty popular still uh
most people consider him a pretty good
representative of uh Ukrainian people
and what what we want and uh pretty
disheartening I'd say to hear what
people say here but I'm used to it um
surprisingly chank uh I agree with in
the sense that uh we can't allow uh
Russia to continue get away with what
they're doing because that's what they
have been doing in particular with
annexation of Georgia and territory and
mova and Ukraine in 14 and now in 22
full scale Invasion and um yeah um
nothing stops them then from fully
invading mova or Georgia they are
already doing all they can to select
people there um as you know presidents
and um Med medal in their um elections
uh quite strongly already and if they
can't do it with just hybrid methods of
uh you know sabotaging the elections and
uh making people basically you know um
install their puppets there then they do
uh well sort of like a blackmail then
they do threats and then they do
annexation Invasion Terror uh death and
you know all what that we are having
right now in Ukraine and that's not how
would you describe and how would you
describe the mood of the Ukrainian
people when I was there like I say two
years ago to a man and woman whatever
age that I met there was this Steely
resolve of we got to win this at all
costs but the cost has been enormous you
know so many cities just destroyed so
many people killed all these children
being taken and so on is there a mood
now in the country
that they just want peace just want a
deal even if it means surrendering the
territory that's been
taken uh well nobody wants peace more
than us I live in a city that is bombed
every day you know my father has been
killed so of course we want peace but
that depends on what that peace is
because uh nobody wants peace without
any sort of Justice right and um that is
the problem because uh we have to
consider um power now obviously right
even if the fire stops so let's say my
city stops being bombed every day that's
a bonus for me obviously right and for
my family and for my friends but uh how
important is that bonus because it's a
temporarily bonus we have to think about
the future that other people other
Generations are not going to go go
through exact same things we went
through and that's quite important to
most ukrainians but the mood of course
have been solid uh as you said people
were more enthusiastic before
specifically because of the I would say
lack of care and lack of commitment from
our allies uh as particularly the
incredible amount of limitations on our
long range strikes for example as you
know UK actually gave us the long range
missos storm Shadows I believe they're
called and we used and we couldn't
really use them because of the
limitations that were given to us
primarily by United States and by Biden
by the way himself administ his
administration at least so in that sense
there has been a sort of demoralizing
effect of course because of the lack of
Aid inconsistent aid from both United
States and also European countries as
well and uh it's hard to sustain that
sort of like U I'd say hopefulness uh
and will uh when you are not confident
that you will have means to fight with
properly and that I would say dampen the
mood yeah I understand that Scott um you
know a lot of people have come on this
show since this war started and they
they've made the argument which I know
that you you subscribe to which is
effectively the west and Ukraine goed
Russia into doing this by continually
pushing for NATO membership for NATO
encroachment and so on as the Russians
saw it there's there's another school of
thought that this could have been
resolved diplomatically that that
actually yeah you can take that argument
you can see there's Merit to that
argument uh certainly to a degree but it
doesn't justify launching a full
invasion of your neighboring country
would you accept that The Invasion
itself didn't actually have to
happen yes I have a whole section in my
book about all of Putin's different
options that he could have uh taken the
book is not called Justified why Russia
had to do what they had to do it's
called provoked how Washington started
the new cold war with Russia and the
catastrophe in Ukraine because the book
is 700 pages of all of this going back
to the end of the last Cold War and um I
you know with all due respect to the guy
that shot Bin Laden in the head um thank
you and and with all due respect to this
young woman whose poor country is being
bombed to death and their opinions here
it's just not the case that what we have
is a simple case of a hitlerian Putin L
Russia running rough shot and Rampage
and the only thing to stop him is when
uh tough good guys like us stand up to a
bully like him for example in a war that
they both sided numerous times here
today the Georgia war was begun by the
American sock puppet s kashvi he
launched that war and killed Russian
peacekeepers in his initial assault and
they lied about that led by John McCain
during the campaign at the time in 2008
but even the New York Times later
admitted that yeah it was true that that
was how that war started and it was a
and part of his motivation to do that
was that bush a few months before had
given him sort of a pseudo membership
action plan for joining NATO but you
can't join NATO if you don't have
settled borders and Georgia had these
two Breakaway provinces under Russian
protection and so he was trying to
reincorporate them so he would have a
settled border so he could join
America's military Alliance which
completely blew in his face and got a
bunch of people killed but that's just
not the same thing as Putin wakes up
every day scheming on how he can conquer
Poland and only America's threat of
ultimate hbomb Annihilation is holding
him at Bay it's just really not like
that it's much more complicated than
that and you know again uh back to your
original question it's not to say that
he's justified in what he's done but
it's like if you get in a bar fight and
you're shoving a guy with a knife in his
pocket and he stabs you that doesn't
justify you shoving him doesn't justify
him stabbing you but also you were
shoving a guy with a knife in his pocket
and don't pretend like he just woke up
this morning looking to pick a fight
with you and and one more thing here a
great example and then I'll leave it is
the status quo in Crimea held from 1991
all the way through
2014 what changed was that and and there
was a controversy over it's a extremely
important Russian naval base there at
sesta pole and the rest of this it was
in controversy since Independence but
the status quo held until the Barack
Obama government overthrew the
government of Ukraine for the second
time in 10 years and then the new regime
immediately threatened to uh repeal and
abolish The harke Pact the agreement by
which Russia was allowed to stay at
sesta pole and it was only then that
They seized the Crimean Peninsula so
it's not to say that oh it was perfectly
Justified for them to do so but it is to
say that it was Barack Obama and Joe
Biden who picked that fight and then it
was Putin who finished it and then this
is a big part of the reason why the war
in the east broke out immediately was
because when the denters seized
buildings in the East and including with
some Russian help just like the
westerners helped the
maidan they declared war against them
they overreacted at John Brennan's beest
we know this it was reported in Forbes
John Brennan went there on April 12th
they launched the war on the 14th and
the reason that he the reason they they
did that was because they the coup had
already blown up in their face in the
loss of Crimea so they weren't about to
tolerate
Russ
East it's not Russian propaganda I'm a
Texan I don't even read Russian or know
what the Russians say about this stuff
this is the history of the world I speak
Russian that's my fine can I please
interject with that well let me let let
me just say right here anytime anyone
contradicts the party line on this
that's all anyone ever says is that this
is Russian propaganda but that's just a
bunch of crap their playing you rep
speaking the truth money or not uh I'm
just lady at least they pay you that
really is all you have because you can't
contradict any of my facts so you have
to come everything you said I par in my
no one in America cares about Russia at
all Lady nobody in America cares about
Russia back in the days of Communism
they were communist please uh can I
please uh have a word uh this person
spoke quite a bit we had gave him him a
roer to repeat Russian talking points
and lies l
so you know okay well Scott letna just
respond to what you were saying Scott to
hear a lot of was said so it's
kind of difficult to counter ER
everything basically it was not a coup
it was a revolution that millions of
people participated in the reason we
participated me included I was 19 back
in the day um we it was because uh we
had severe problems with corruption and
a tyrannical puppet of Russia yanukovich
who refused used to uh make a treaty
with the European Union which is what
most of the people in Ukraine wanted 60
something percent and especially younger
people wanted to move away from Russian
control from Russians owning every
single business industry in my country
and to have some sort of like laws and
Order and also have some sort of
democracy and Liberty that is what
something people have in the west and
that's something that we did not have so
that was about Revolution was about that
about students going and protesting and
getting beat up and yanukovich then
going to Russia to essentially ask Putin
his body how can he stop the protesters
which he then made dictator laws that
prohibited people to effectively protest
at all in this country so we didn't
appreciate that and we went literally
millions of people participated in
maidan that is not a coupe that is not
something you buy for Obama or nand
cookies I I I'm sorry to say never
received a single cookie yet it's been a
long time and yeah all of that when
going to Georgia is a whole other thing
but that's just what Russia does it
creates unrest it supports uh militias
in the countries and then it uh
basically uh FL fluts them with weapons
and also applies its own soldiers to
Annex territory by the guys of
protecting Russian speakers or any of
that Scot is a master I I believe Scot
is the name right um here but I am a
Russian speaker from Eastern Ukraine
it's about as East As It Gets in harv
and I didn't require their protection I
was never prosecuted what they did is
that they attacked us on the on the
under the guys of protecting Russian
speakers that would never prosecuted in
this country because half of us
literally are Russian speakers we have
been russified back in the day by
Russian Empire so yeah this war is about
not about you I'm sad to say some things
are not about America
it is worries about our very longtime
centuries long oppressor trying to
thrust us back under their control and
we didn't want that people in Georgia
don't want that if you can see it by now
currently by the Revolution and the
protest going on in the country exactly
for the same reason because their
corrupt Russian puppet government
refused the people's will to be part of
Europe so it was never about NATO
because we never discussed joining NATO
until Russian invasion it was never even
a conversation in Ukraine about joining
NATO so thanks for the lies obviously
also also yeah they do have borders with
NATO right now and they had them before
now it's even bigger it doubled because
Finland in fear of Russia joined NATO
that's why people join NATO because they
want protection from Russian aggression
okay thank you Anna uh Rob you've been
waiting patiently um it's interesting I
mean I I find with these debates I learn
a lot but I'm not entirely sure sure
where the truth lies having just heard
two very different versions of the
history here what would you like to
say well I mean what I like to say is uh
I'm obviously Anna has more experience
than me she lives there she's lost
family members and having seen War
firsthand I know that uh most people
don't want to be at War most people are
trying to get on with their lives and
unfortunately they're bad people that uh
Force this stuff and my heart goes out
to them too and I'm definitely going to
buy Scott's book after this I'm I'm
actually sitting here on this panel
learning a lot
open I us to be know America pie and
we're the greatest in the world but I've
seen that we've done sitting here in the
United States having work in DC and
living in New York um I I just don't
like my taxpayer dollars going over to a
place where people are are funneling
into their own pockets and uh
threatening a nuclear war because it
doesn't matter who does it if one nuke
gets launched if it's India to Pakistan
or or Israel to somewhere else or the
United States decides the only country
by the way to ever drop a nuclear weapon
on another country if that happens again
we're going to go into a thing called
nuclear winner and you're not you're
going to want to die in the blast you're
not going to want to die doing that um I
my interest is in uh you know getting
corrupt politics out well first here
hopefully it starts in January and then
maybe it can spread somewhere else
you're never going to get rid of corrupt
politicians because narcissists are just
they just go there Washington's full of
them I've been there I've seen him
obviously Vladimir Putin's a horrible
person I don't like volodimir zalinski
either uh I'm I'm tired of seeing
innocent people get killed for other
people getting rich because that's
that's what happens I'm tired of seeing
soldiers who don't want to be there both
Ukraine and Russia fighting in trenches
like they did in World War I and getting
hit with uh suicide drones which is the
wave of the future almost to the point
where we're going to stop having manned
uh Jets because it's not it's a waste of
time when Legions of drones will be
fighting I hate to see this escalation
of force I hate to see people getting
rich everywhere from the the uh
industrial complex of the military of
big Pharma of all that stuff it's just
sad as someone who went somewhere uh
risked my own life to kill the number
one terrorist in the world and now
wonder if some of the places we went
were even worth it or we're just making
people like Dick Cheney Rich so that's
why I'm here and and I'm just open I
want to hear what shank has to say buing
the book love to hear Scott's book love
to hear what Anna is saying and uh I'm
I'm honest to God just learning stuff
here today so you know what that's such
a great honest answer Rob that's why I
love having you on on sensed because
you're an honest guy and I I I really no
but I really appreciate that I feel the
same way I don't I don't I don't I don't
profess to be a great expert here uh
Chen I'm G to come to you in a second I
was going to have a quick uh break to
speak to the former NATO Supreme Ally
Commander General Wesley Clark General
thank you very much indeed for joining
us oh happy to be here appear I'm
listening to this panel look um there's
a lot of
misinformation I was in Ukraine on the
20th uh 31st of March I went through
maidon I talked to the people I looked
at the lamp post where Putin's uh
henchmen had killed a bunch of
ukrainians or a bunch of bullet still
embedded in the lamp post I followed it
very very close
closely um I don't know exactly what you
want to talk about if I'd been on your
panel I would have probably disagreed
with most of them the people in Ukraine
are fighting for
democracy NATO didn't push itself to the
borders it was drawn to the borders by
the people in Eastern Europe who wanted
Freedom they wanted freedom from Russian
oppression that's why NATO expanded in
response to them not because NATO wanted
to expand it's because because in order
to stabilize you have to you had to be
able to provide investment and to get
investment people needed security and
they were living in fear of Russia
coming back now when did Putin decide to
come
back soon as he became president in
1999 at the speech uh he made in the in
auration of president kochma in
Ukraine Putin said Ukraine and Russia
we're more Than Brothers we are in each
other's Souls Poland sent its National
Security advisor to see me after that
said he's trying to restore the Soviet
Union he's coming after us so this is a
leld ambition by Mr Putin and he's seen
weakness in the west
repeatedly and uh that weakness has
encouraged him to move and it's going to
continue until the west shows strength
and that strength means providing much
more to Ukraine bringing Ukraine into
NATO and saying to Mr Putin very
directly look stop stop we're not
interested in strategic arms discussions
we're not interested in investing in
your economy we're not interested in
having nice conversations in Switzerland
with you until you pull back return the
children account for the
inductees bring to trial the war
criminals that have been indicted in
Ukrainian courts and um you you all
close to a trillion dollars in
destruction of our company country so
peers these are very clear lines this is
1938 and you would have heard the same
kind of apologist for Hitler you would
have heard them saying the peace in
Versa was unfair and the the French and
there's corruption and so forth there's
corruption in every government it's
there in your government it's there in
the United States it's there in Ukraine
but it's never the same as it is in
Russia where organized crime works as an
arm of the government connected to the
intelligence agencies to assure that
Putin and his cronies get what they want
so um I think it's a very uh difficult
time I don't know how the negotiations
are going to turn out but uh but I would
tell you this that um that Mr Trump's in
a tough position because if he gives
Putin what he wants he looks weak to the
rest of the world yeah and if he looks
to the rest rest of the world China is
going to move um he's got a we've got in
the United States a window now to do
something in the Middle East and I think
Netanyahu probably will ask Mr Trump to
do it and um POS a choice for the
Iranian regime either knock off the
hegemonial aspirations and shut down
this uh this Arc of resistance including
the weapons to the hoties or face the
consequences
with Iran you have to go to the source
uh with Russia you have to stand firm
we've had deterrence in place for 70
years we have nuclear weapons Putin
doesn't want to use a nuclear weapon
he's afraid of nuclear weapons but he
he's using them to threaten so people
like your bearded guy whose name I
didn't get um these are people who are
repeating Russian talking points it's
exactly what the woman from Ukraine said
now I will tell you that people in
Ukraine are suffering and uh they would
love an end to this conflict they didn't
choose it it was forced on them but uh
the only way it's going to be
successfully resolved is by strong us
leadership and Mr Trump is in a position
where no matter what he said about
ending the war and in 24 hours he's in a
position where he simply cannot and will
not concede uh everything that Putin
wants he won't do it if he does um you
won't make America great again you'll
invite War elsewhere in the world so I
see you brought in the rest of the panel
here I'll stop well no you know what
general I've I've interviewed you many
times I've seen you interview many times
I've never seen you quite this angry it
feels to me like you're angry about
where things angry about well appears
I'm angry about hearing the
misinformation from some members of your
okay now I pleas can I explain something
before you talk please sir I was at the
beginning of NATO
enlargement I was there at the beginning
I talked to foreign leaders I set up the
program as a staff officer in the
Pentagon I was the NATO commander who
went to Bulgaria and Romania and Estonia
and lvia and they told me we've got to
be in NATO they didn't say uh hey uh if
you want us okay B you blah blah blah
blah we said we don't want you it's too
much of a problem they said please
please help us and so that's exactly
what happened that's how we got there in
2014 when Putin went into
Crimea the ukrainians could have stopped
it but they asked the United
States what should we do and the United
States told them give up
Crimea why because we wanted Putin's
cooperation in the Middle East uh and
with Iran to stop Iran's nuclear
program
when Putin went further in
donos we provided information but we
provided no lethal assistance to
Ukraine for all these years the United
States Administration was timid in
dealing with Putin it's like one member
of the administration said recently of
the Biden Administration said oh we
never expected that nuclear weapons I
mean o woo nuclear weapons have been the
foundation for Western Security since
the end of the second world war we've
had near confrontations with the Soviets
and because American Presidents didn't
back down we didn't have War now Mr
Trump has put himself in an extremely
difficult
position but uh all of our talk about
Ukraine and and providing telling
Ukraine in advance are you going to have
to give up your territory and uh by by
the way you're not going to be a member
of NATO let's not do any this right now
let's put the forces let's get the
forces in Ukraine the weapons and
support they need so that the people who
have already been mobilized can have
these weapons and provide the reserves
that are necessary in Ukraine let's
leave an open-ended commitment for Mr
Trump let's tell the ukrainians It
Strike to your heart's content in Russia
you get no Sanctuary Mr Putin you
started this you pay the price and then
let's go into the talk with
understanding what we want we want all
of Ukraine's land back we want
reparations we want the children return
we want the missing people accounted for
uh and we want the war criminals put on
trial and then we can talk about
sanctions relief no sanctions relief
until the conditions are satisfied and
uh you know it's very hard for
democracies to be able to to stand up to
a man like Putin he doesn't have to
worry about reelection but we need the
leadership in the west I've seen it in
some countries macron sometimes comes
off very strong Britain has come off
very strong in this and uh right now the
Biden Administration is trying to Surge
support into Ukraine and I think
president Trump when he comes in is
going to realize that whatever his
relationship is with Mr Putin and
however many times he's called him U
he's not going to easily uh give in and
sacrifice Ukraine he can't afford to and
uh Putin's already threatened him Pier
Putin's already told him uh that he's
worried about his safety that's like
Tony Soprano is saying to you I'm really
worried about the the way you're walking
across the street so I'm not angry Piers
except that there's a lot of
misinformation out can I can I get in
here and respond now please yeah okay
General thank you just if you don't mind
I'll bring the others in I've got to say
you have articulated exactly what I've
been feeling this entire time and I've
started to think I was going completely
mad but to have somebody with your
experience particularly about from the
very start of NATO outlining what I
believe has been the way this has all
played out is actually quite reassuring
to me that I've not gone nuts let me
bring in Chen because you've not had a
chance to to respond for a while Scot
Scott I'm gonna come to you SC Scott
Scott Scott I will come to you after CH
but I must I must let Chen have his say
Chen you've been listening to all this
very different opinions but what is your
reaction
yeah I want to tell you my thoughts uh
and then I actually would love to ask
General Clark a question and so look I
understand both sides of this uh
equation and so if you're the ukrainians
imagine if uh if some other Nation had
taken 20% of America would we want to
give up would you want to oh yeah it's
okay just take Alabama Mississippi Texas
Etc it's fine no we'd hate it and we'd
fight forever right so I understand that
on the other hand you know when General
Clark starts talking about the nuclear
weapons I get super scared there H
because what if Trump's Bluff gets
called at some point Trump's main Bluff
is oh yeah you better not mess with me
I'm crazy I I'll I'll I'll make this war
much bigger if you mess with me yeah but
what if Putin says yeah go ahead well
then we're in a lot of trouble right
because I don't want to get involved in
a war like this I don't want to get
involved with nuclear weapons Etc on the
other hand your point about Russian AGG
ression is definitely true I I I can't
stand these people starting Wars taking
territory and and and it breaks my heart
to see it the kidnap children Etc so but
General Clark the question I wanted to
ask you and you know how much I respect
you and and we we have a relationship
before and by the way the audience
should know General Clark is the one
that called out the neocons for trying
to invade seven countries at once uh
including the Iraq War and so he's
earned a lot of respect by doing that
but General Clark this is a genuine
question which is
okay but if we go with what you're
saying how long do we fight how long
does Ukraine fight how how much money do
we spend how many years of war do we
have to endure and what if Ukraine just
doesn't win so we're let's say we go
another two years five years 20 years
how do we resolve it if Ukraine can't
win well I think um what you have to do
is understand that this war will go on
until Putin believes he can't win so all
the discussion in the west about how to
preemptively surrender territory and all
this is it all feeds Putin's appetite he
understands from all this discussion
that the West is weakening in its will
and therefore if he just keeps shoving
soldiers forward uh that eventually uh
the West will comply and and cut off
assistance to Ukraine and tell Ukraine
uh good luck uh hope you enjoy being
being part of Poland again because
that's his aim he wants he doesn't
really care about Lviv what he wants is
the North Coast of the Black Sea and
Odessa and of course kke and keev and so
forth and uh and and and and then he
wants the rest of Europe Eastern Europe
that used to be under Soviet Dominion he
needs this in order to be able to
confront China and uh and this is the
ultimate fear
of of Russia and its leadership and they
know they can't confront China unless
they have control over Eastern Europe
including the baltics and Poland and uh
and the rest of the Balkan Peninsula and
so it's a long-term geostrategic game
and uh and Jen I I just tell you this um
there's no American soldiers over there
getting killed and most of the money
that's been appropriated by the United
States has gone to buy new weapons in
the United States we're giving them the
old stuff the old a attacks we've just
recently even reprioritized our military
sales program we're still selling uh
eight tacks to Morocco now why does
Morocco need 68 tacks I I don't know but
uh we're selling stuff all Patriots all
over the world that stuff should go to
Ukraine as long as the United States
stands firm we won't have nuclear
weapons and nuclear war Putin doesn't
want it either but um he does believe
right now that we will collapse and he
will continue to threaten the nuclear
and play the nuclear card yeah because
that's the way the Russians play it yeah
and so you just have to stand firm
against it and you need strong
leadership and you need the American
people behind you and what you have to
understand is that Putin understands how
to manipulate public opinion in every
country in Europe there are people there
saying just like uh one of the gentlemen
on this panel said uh you know this is
crazy and people are getting killed and
I'm tired of seeing uh people dying and
we've got to have peace in 1937
38 in Europe everybody had fresh
memories of the first world war it was a
horrible experience a whole generation
of British young men were wiped out uh
the French got it got so bad that in in
one group of French divisions they
pulled out every 10th Soldier and shot
him for cowardice nobody wanted a repeat
of the first world war and so um Hitler
occupied the Ryland against inst Hitler
rearmed Hitler rebuilt the military and
at every stage there were people who
said well this is really dangerous but
uh but please we can't think about it it
can't be another world war so we're
revisiting this in a slightly different
form today um if we believe in democracy
if we believe in what we set up if we
believe in the lessons we learned from
the second world war then we've got this
stand firm against Mr Putin President
Biden should have said to him look Bud U
you come after Ukraine I promise you
you're G to lose you're G to lose but he
didn't say that and he's never said that
no he hasn't that's the the policy has
to start okay General thank you very
much let me bring Scott Halton in to
respond to that because you you know
you're being compared to the people back
in the late 30s who just didn't see the
D of adol hit
Nazis it's completely Preposterous and
it's the Refuge of Scoundrels who have
run out of arguments I think anyone
could see that it's the same thing as uh
this endless claim I mean isn't this
just a talking point that anyone who
disagrees is repeating Russian talking
points I don't sit around watching RT
all day memorizing what the Russian
regime says and repeating that I wrote a
book that's
775,000 words most of it is American
gray beards talking about how they know
better than the thing that they're about
to do and then doing it anyway and you
know one of the things that I talk about
in there although I couldn't find too
much about General Clark's role in this
but when there was a debate and I'd like
to pose this in the form of a question
to him when there was a debate in the
1990s in the Bill Clinton administration
about whether to do NATO expansion or
whether to do the partnership for peace
was it not the Secretary of defense
William Perry and the chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff John shy kashvi
with the help of General Clark weren't
they the ones who argued the Pentagon
for peace let's do the partnership for
peace instead of NATO expansion and it
was Richard Holbrook and talbat and Lake
who outclassed the Pentagon uh in office
politics and forced through NATO
expansion instead and the William Perry
John shy kashvi and I believe at the
time Wesley Clark argument was we don't
want to redraw the dividing line in
Europe yes it's true a lot of these
countries that used to be dominated by
Soviet Communists in the battle days of
course want to join NATO but we got to
look at what's good for us and what's
most important for us is that we keep a
decent relationship a stable
relationship with Russia and one great
way to do that would be to as they said
they were going to do at the time peers
turn NATO into to a political
organization sort of like the EU plus
America but then they would have instead
of an alliance because there's no enemy
anymore now we would have the
partnership for peace a new security
architecture and Russia the Russian
Federation and Ukraine would be members
of it and then that way Ukraine's
neutrality as a obviously extremely
important country locked between
European uh you know civilization and
Russia there will not the controversy
will be settled with a a a pseudo a like
a de facto permanent neutrality there
and then what happened was the Hawks won
the argument and then as all of the gray
beards said at the time oh no you see
what we're doing we're just redrawing
the line the policy has gone from
containment to friends to neoc
containment this is before W bush ever
even came to town okay well let me all
right let me put that point then to to
to someone by the way for the record
does not have a Gray beard uh General
Clark but would you like to respond to
what youve just
heard it it's actually you're right we
had a multiplicity of interests with the
so with Russia uh at uh the time the
Clinton Administration came in and the
first interest was to control the
nuclear weapons that were in Kazakhstan
Ukraine and and the loose nukes argument
took priority and um we got legislation
passed the non Luger agreement agement
uh Amendment um basically we put
billions of dollars into helping control
the uh Soviets former Soviets nuclear
Arsenal and as part of that we assured
Ukraine that when they gave up their
nuclear weapons uh and Russia signed on
to this that their boundaries would be
respected you see there in in
1991 Ukraine had already voted uh in
favor of Independence the people in
Ukraine never wanted to be under Russian
control it's a separate culture it's a
different language if you look up and
and I don't know if you speak Russian
but if apparently you don't but I do and
I thought well I'll just go you know
brush up on my Russian and be able to
speak Ukrainian it's a different
language and um it's a different culture
it's a different history Ukraine's been
independent in the past and it was the
one of the first subjects of Russia's
Imperial Ambitions going back to
Catherine the Great and the way that it
operates is um it it it's not a nice
colonialism it's an ugly colonialism in
which Russia says I'm in charge here I
want a part of your business and uh and
they buy people and they influence and
and I've met many Ukrainian leaders over
the years including some who've made
billions of dollars off their
associations with Russia so um when the
United States looked at this in the
early 1990s we were hopeful that there
would actually be democratic reform in
Russia but it it didn't happen and as
Bill Clinton traveled abroad in
1993 and in 1994 and he looked at it
himself and talked to these East
European leaders who were emerging They
begged Clinton to give us the protection
of NATO and so that weekend that you're
referring to when Al Gore made the
speech that Richard Holbrook wrote in
Berlin and yes I uh I I checked with my
bosses in Pentagon I said no of course
we're not in charge we don't want NATO
enlarg we got enough problems don't
don't don't bring any other issues uh
partnership for peace had already been
established Russia was a member of it
and uh and and and and and I said to my
boss I said they keep putting this thing
in here about enlarging NATO uh and I
keep scratching it out and it keeps
coming back in sure enough uh vice
president Gore gave that speech spe and
he gave it at the direction of President
of the United States because President
Clinton himself in going through Eastern
Europe had looked and listened to the
leadership there he knew the history he
knew Foreign Relations he knew foreign
policy and he determined that the best
Avenue for peace forward was to both
provide security for Eastern Europe
through opportunities for NATO
membership if they wanted it and work
with Russia and give Russia a special
relationship with NATO so we formed the
NATO Russia Council the NATO Russia
Council had all the members of NATO
listening to Russia and all of its
concerns um in 1997 1998
1999 I was there sitting in that Council
when uh former Russian foreign minister
yevan primov gave us a lecture Russia
has no permanent friends Russia has only
permanent interests and I'm he's looking
at me and and I know who who he was he's
the guy who basically started the
Palestinian terrorist organizations as a
KGB agent um and he knew who I was and
we knew each other and um and I knew
what he was saying he was saying that
Russia didn't appreciate NATO wouldn't
cooperate with NATO and was going to go
its own way he later ran for president
lost to Vladimir Putin but the point is
that the United States worked
assiduously to try to bring stability to
Eastern Europe including working with
Russia and it was Russia that really
didn't want this from the beginning we
we actually had hopes that Russia might
join NATO but from the beginning of
Putin's time he crushed democracy
crushed dissent and stepbystep
Consolidated power using the the Mafia
the Russian mafia and the intelligence
agencies and so we are in the position
where we are today I've always wished I
could talk to Putin and say look it's
not that we disrespect you we we like
Russia we love Russian music culture
your history there's so many great
things that have come out of Russia but
you can't step on other people you can't
treat people that way you can't invade
other countries we're not going to
invade you there's no threat here I was
with the Russian foreign minister when
we were dealing with the conventional
foreign forces in Europe treaty in
1998 and Minister Ivanov said uh well
under this treaty in a time of of
detention NATO could put a a a division
in Slovakia on the borders of
Russia or of bellarus and um and I said
Mr Minister one NATO division on the
borders of bellarus is a threat to
Russia come on now Ivanov laughed he
knew it wasn't a threat yeah he knew it
and so you know you you just I'm I'm not
accusing anybody of reading and
repeating what Russia's telling you to
say I'm saying there's a lot of
misinformation out here yeah but U we
are where we are and the only way can I
ask just one short follow up there very
very quickly we have to wrap but very
quickly yeah sure yeah very briefly I
wonder uh General Clark if you're aware
that your then boss William Perry he
later told the guardian that it was the
greatest regret of his life that he did
not do every single thing he could to
stop Clinton from going down the path of
NATO
expansion here's what I'll do Scot I'll
just ask General Clark and please be
brief if you don't mind General Clark
but was Clinton right or wrong looking
with
hindsight well I think Clinton was right
in hindsight because um when you unravel
what actually happened with the
dissolution of the Soviet Union and I
don't have the greatest respect for for
Dr Perry but um the KGB there's a book
written on this called Putin's people
and then you can read it but basically
the KGB saw it collapsing in the late
1980s they they didn't trust gorbachov
they moved the money to the West when
democracy started most of the people in
the political parties in Russia were
Former Intelligence agents they'd been
uh schooled in how to campaign they
formed different political parties to
make it appear as though uh there were
different parties but uh in reality
they were anxious to regain power so we
never really followed through with the
opportunity that the dissolution of the
Soviet
Union presented to us right I mean U you
know we could have sent democracy
trainers into the Soviet Union we didn't
we had the National Endowment for
democracy but it was just scratching the
surface we never really reached out to
the Russian people it's a different
culture they don't understand it uh
they're isolated and just like the
American people don't understand a
foreign policy neither do the Russian
people a un Diplomat told me once he
said you know you Americans are like the
Russians most of your people don't even
have passports you live far from
National borders you don't have any
appreciation for other nationalities we
could have extended a stronger hand in
friendship and I'm talking not at
Clinton I'm talking about George H bush
when it happened yeah we just didn't do
it and um we had a very brief window to
make a great difference we didn't um I
think that the protection we provided
through NATO membership for the
countries of Eastern Europe and that we
want to extend to Ukraine has been
really important if you look I drove um
a couple of times from Eastern Poland
into Ukraine in eastern Poland the
houses are painted the the fields are
cultivated everything looks good as soon
as you go across that border uh the
difference in prosperity is marked and
it's marked because
uh Ukraine hasn't had the protection of
the European Union and NATO and that's
why the people in 2014 2013 and maidon
they saw this Ukraine and Poland were
economically similar in the 1980s but by
2014 Poland's GDP per capita was two or
three times what it was in Ukraine
simply because that Poland had the
association with the West with its
security provided by NATO so um we've
got to get through what is more than a
bump in a road it's a critical period
and international policy where we're
going to decide whether the rule of law
prevails or we're going to go back to
the 19th century competition between
Empires and Emperors and uh and to hell
with the people underneath and that's
where we are right I've got to leave it
there I don't want to actually I could I
could honestly do another two or three
hours of this it has been an absolutely
fascinating
conversation with all of you I really
appreciate you all joining me I've got
to leave it there reluctantly but uh
thank you very much
indeed hey thanks everybody PE nice to
be with you thank you thank you
General well just before we go a quick
look at what on Earth has gone on in
South Korea over the past 48 hours is
the American political analyst on inter
Korean Affairs Robert Kelly Robert
thanks so much for joining me um what
the hell is going on in South Korea
explain to a Layman what the reality is
about this this extraordinary
development in the last 34
hours yeah it looks like the president
tried to declare martial law over fairly
minor stuff which is to say gridlock in
the uh Parliament and the opposition's
investigation of his appointees and um
his wife and he's apparently quite
sensitive about uh the perception that
his wife is corrupt this has been sort
of a running issue in South Korea for a
while now and uh he just wildly
overreacted right I mean there was just
no sense this was coming at all I mean
there's nothing in the Korean media
about this a couple days ago you know he
did it at 10:00 at night half the
country woke was asleep woke up the next
morning they were like what was going on
you know I mean it was just a complete
shock out of the blue which you've seen
in the media coverage all over the world
nobody really had any sense that this
was coming at all and and you know
because it was so drastic and sharp and
extreme I think it you know collapsed
almost as rapidly because the South
Korean Parliament was like just like you
like what the hell is this right and and
they voted against it is it likely that
this guy will now in to be be removed
from office sooner rather than
later yes I would imagine South Korea
went through an entire impeachment cycle
with a president just seven years ago so
there's a practiced template if you will
for removing a president they've done it
and this is far this his offenses are
far greater than than what she did seven
years ago her name was Puck and hey y
has gone far beyond that right I mean
this is widely considered to be an
enormous overreaction and I would be
amazed if he doesn't resign in the next
10 days if he if he chooses to stay and
fight it out I imagine the impeachment
will be much faster than last time I bet
he'll be gone by the end of January
there are three different countries who
be looking at this with great particular
personal interest the United States you
have 25,000 troops there on that border
North Korea obviously who might be
sensing an opportunity of very weak uh
and vulnerable South Korea and China
presume would be looking at all this as
well is there likely to be any uh larger
repercussion from this involving any of
those three
countries because it collapsed so fast
I'm not really sure whenever the the
South Koreans have sort of trouble
there's concern the North Koreans might
do something the North Koreans are a bit
stretched right now because they're so
they're getting pulled into this Ukraine
mess right I would be surprised if the
north korean's taking advantage of this
there hasn't been anything in the last
24 hours um but you know they might I
mean the North Koreans are great
provocators um the Americans I'm a
little bit surprised that the Biden
Administration didn't really say too
much initially I think the Americans
were kind of Ted on this I think the
Biden people are going to get some
criticism for that but I think to a
certain extent that's kind of
understandable because nobody really
knew quite what this was right it's like
all of a sudden president goes on
martial law and everybody's like what is
this just like you said and and so I
think the Biden people will get a little
bit of sort of Grace on that one and
again it sort of fell fell apart so
rapidly so you know normality has kind
of come back you know the stock market
slipped the wand the currency has
slipped but I don't see any big foreign
breach at the moment um because it fell
apart so rapidly but you know if the
tanks had stayed on the streets then
yeah I mean it would be huge opportunity
for China Robert Kelly thank you so much
what a great snapshot assessment of it
all I really appreciate you joining me
thank you thanks for having me